tornado/getting_started.asciidoc, before:

= PubNub Python  SDK 4.0.0.beta1

NOTE: These docs are for PubNub 4.0 for Python which is our latest and greatest! For the docs of the
older versions of the SDK, please check PubNub 3.0 for Python.
If you have questions about the PubNub for Java SDK, please contact us at support@pubnub.com.

===== The simplest way to get started is to install PubNub Python SDK via pypi:
[source, sh]
----
pip install pubnub>=4.0.1.beta
----

===== Get Code: git
[source, sh]
----
git clone https://github.com/pubnub/python && cd python/pythonCopy
----

===== Get Code: Source

[source, sh]
----
https://github.com/pubnub/python/tree/master/python
----

'''

== Hello world

[source, python]
----
from pubnub.callbacks import SubscribeCallback
from pubnub.enums import PNStatusCategory
from pubnub.pnconfiguration import PNConfiguration
from pubnub.pubnub_tornado import PubNubTornado
from tornado.ioloop import IOLoop

from tornado import gen

@gen.coroutine
def main():
    def my_publish_callback(future):
        # Check whether request successfully completed or not
        exception = future.exception()
        if exception is None:
            envelope = future.result()
            pass  # Message successfully published to specified channel.
        else:
            pass  # Handle message publish error. Check 'category' property to find out possible issue
            # because of which request did fail.
            # Request can be resent using: [status retry];

    class MySubscribeCallback(SubscribeCallback):
        def presence(self, pubnub, presence):
            pass  # handle incoming presence data

        def status(self, pubnub, status):
            if status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNUnexpectedDisconnectCategory:
                pass  # This event happens when radio / connectivity is lost

            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNConnectedCategory:
                # Connect event. You can do stuff like publish, and know you'll get it.
                # Or just use the connected event to confirm you are subscribed for
                # UI / internal notifications, etc
                pubnub.ioloop.add_future(
                    pubnub.publish().channel("awesomeChannel").message("hello!!").future(),
                    my_publish_callback
                )
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNReconnectedCategory:
                pass
                # Happens as part of our regular operation. This event happens when
                # radio / connectivity is lost, then regained.
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNDecryptionErrorCategory:
                pass
                # Handle message decryption error. Probably client configured to
                # encrypt messages and on live data feed it received plain text.

        def message(self, pubnub, message):
            # Handle new message stored in message.message
            pass

    pubnub.add_listener(MySubscribeCallback())
    pubnub.subscribe().channels('awesomeChannel').execute()
    yield gen.sleep(10)


if __name__ == '__main__':
    IOLoop.current().run_sync(main)
----

== Copy and paste examples
In addition to the Hello World sample code, we also provide some copy and paste snippets of common
API functions:

=== Init
Instantiate a new Pubnub instance. Only the `subscribe_key` is mandatory. Also include `publish_key`
if you intend to publish from this instance, and the `secret_key` if you wish to perform PAM
administrative operations from this Python V4 instance.

NOTE: For security reasons you should only include the secret-key on a highly secured server. The
secret-key is only required for granting rights using our Access Manager.

[source,python]
.Initializing the client
----
from pubnub.pnconfiguration import PNConfiguration
from pubnub.pubnub_tornado import PubNubTornado

pnconfig = PNConfiguration()

pnconfig.subscribe_key = 'my_subscribe_key'
pnconfig.publish_key = 'my_publish_key'
pnconfig.secret_key = 'my_secret_key'

pubnub = PubNubTornado(pnconfig)
----

=== Listeners

[source,python]
.Adding listeners
----
from pubnub.callbacks import SubscribeCallback
from pubnub.enums import PNStatusCategory

class MySubscribeCallback(SubscribeCallback):
    def status(self, pubnub, status):
        pass
        # The status object returned is always related to subscribe but could contain
        # information about subscribe, heartbeat, or errors
        # use the operationType to switch on different options
        if status.operation == PNOperationType.PNSubscribeOperation \
                or status.operation == PNOperationType.PNUnsubscribeOperation:
            if status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNConnectedCategory:
                pass
                # This is expected for a subscribe, this means there is no error or issue whatsoever
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNReconnectedCategory:
                pass
                # This usually occurs if subscribe temporarily fails but reconnects. This means
                # there was an error but there is no longer any issue
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNDisconnectedCategory:
                pass
                # This is the expected category for an unsubscribe. This means there
                # was no error in unsubscribing from everything
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNUnexpectedDisconnectCategory:
                pass
                # This is usually an issue with the internet connection, this is an error, handle
                # appropriately retry will be called automatically
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNAccessDeniedCategory:
                pass
                # This means that PAM does allow this client to subscribe to this
                # channel and channel group configuration. This is another explicit error
            else:
                pass
                # This is usually an issue with the internet connection, this is an error, handle appropriately
                # retry will be called automatically
        elif status.operation == PNOperationType.PNSubscribeOperation:
            # Heartbeat operations can in fact have errors, so it is important to check first for an error.
            # For more information on how to configure heartbeat notifications through the status
            # PNObjectEventListener callback, consult <link to the PNCONFIGURATION heartbeart config>
            if status.is_error():
                pass
                # There was an error with the heartbeat operation, handle here
            else:
                pass
                # Heartbeat operation was successful
        else:
            pass
            # Encountered unknown status type

    def presence(self, pubnub, presence):
        pass  # handle incoming presence data

    def message(self, pubnub, message):
        pass  # handle incoming messages


pubnub.add_listener(MySubscribeCallback())
----

[source,python]
.Removing Listeners
----
# MySubscribeCallback is defined in the "Adding listeners" example
my_listener = MySubscribeCallback()

pubnub.add_listener(my_listener)

# some time later
pubnub.remove_listener(my_listener)
----

[source,python]
.Handling disconnects
----
from pubnub.callbacks import SubscribeCallback
from pubnub.enums import PNStatusCategory

class HandleDisconnectsCallback(SubscribeCallback):
    def status(self, pubnub, status):
        if status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNUnexpectedDisconnectCategory:
            # internet got lost, do some magic and call reconnect when ready
            pubnub.reconnect()
        elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNTimeoutCategory:
            # do some magic and call reconnect when ready
            pubnub.reconnect()
        else:
            logger.debug(status)

    def presence(self, pubnub, presence):
        pass

    def message(self, pubnub, message):
        pass

disconnect_listener = HandleDisconnectsCallback()

pubnub.add_listener(disconnect_listener)
----

==== Listeners categories

|===
| Categories | Description

|PNNetworkIssuesCategory | A subscribe event experienced an exception when running.
|PNReconnectedCategory | SDK was able to reconnect to pubnub.
|PNConnectedCategory | SDK subscribed with a new mix of channels (fired every time the channel / channel group mix changed).
|===

=== Time

[source,python]
.Call `time()` to verify the client connectivity to the origin:
----
envelope = yield pubnub.time().future()
    print('current time: %d' % envelope.result)
----

=== Subscribe

[source,python]
.Subscribe (listen on) a channel:
----
pubnub.subscribe().channels('my_channel').execute()
----

=== Publish

[source,python]
.Publish a message to a channel:
----
@gen.coroutine
def publish_snippet():
    def publish_callback(task):
        exception = task.exception()

        if exception is None:
            envelope = task.result()
            # Handle PNPublishResult(envelope.result) and PNStatus (envelope.status)
            pass
        else:
            # Handle exception
            pass

    pubnub.publish().channel('such_channel').message(['hello', 'there']).future().add_done_callback(publish_callback)

    yield gen.sleep(10)
----

=== HereNow
NOTE: Requires that the `Presence` add-on is enabled for your key. How do I enable add-on features for my keys? - see http://www.pubnub.com/knowledge-base/discussion/644/how-do-i-enable-add-on-features-for-my-keys

[source,python]
.Get occupancy of who's here now on the channel:
----
@gen.coroutine
def here_now():
    envelope = yield pubnub.here_now().channels('demo').include_uuids(True).future()

    if envelope.status.is_error():
        return

    for channel_data in envelope.result.channels:
        print("---")
        print("channel: %s" % channel_data.channel_name)
        print("occupancy: %s" % channel_data.occupancy)

        print("occupants: %s" % channel_data.channel_name)
        for occupant in channel_data.occupants:
            print("uuid: %s, state: %s" % (occupant.uuid, occupant.state))

    pubnub.stop()
----

=== Presence
Subscribe to realtime Presence events, such as `join`, `leave`, and `timeout`, by UUID. Setting the presence attribute to a callback will subscribe to presents events on `my_channel`:

NOTE: Requires that the `Presence` add-on is enabled for your key. How do I enable add-on features for my keys? - see http://www.pubnub.com/knowledge-base/discussion/644/how-do-i-enable-add-on-features-for-my-keys

[source,python]
----
pubnub.subscribe().channels('my_channel').with_presence().execute()
----

NOTE: The response of the call is handled by adding a Listener. Please see the Listeners section for
more details. Listeners should be added before calling the method.


=== History

NOTE: Requires that the `Storage and Playback` add-on is enabled for your key. How do I enable
add-on features for my keys? - see
http://www.pubnub.com/knowledge-base/discussion/644/how-do-i-enable-add-on-features-for-my-keys

[source,python]
.Retrieve published messages from archival storage:
----
envelope = yield pubnub.history().channel('history_channel').count(100).future()
# handle messages stored at evelope.result.messages
# status is available as envelope.status
----

=== Unsubscribe

[source,python]
.Stop subscribing(listening) to a channel:
----
pubnub.unsubscribe().channels(['my_channel', 'another_channel']).execute()
----

NOTE: The response of the call is handled by adding a Listener. Please see the Listeners section
for more details. Listeners should be added before calling the method.

Commit message:

Add aiohttp and tornado imports

tornado/getting_started.asciidoc, after:

= PubNub Python  SDK 4.0.0.beta1

NOTE: These docs are for PubNub 4.0 for Python which is our latest and greatest! For the docs of the
older versions of the SDK, please check PubNub 3.0 for Python.
If you have questions about the PubNub for Java SDK, please contact us at support@pubnub.com.

===== The simplest way to get started is to install PubNub Python SDK via pypi:
[source, sh]
----
pip install pubnub>=4.0.1.beta
----

===== Get Code: git
[source, sh]
----
git clone https://github.com/pubnub/python && cd python/pythonCopy
----

===== Get Code: Source

[source, sh]
----
https://github.com/pubnub/python/tree/master/python
----

'''

== Hello world

[source, python]
----
from pubnub.callbacks import SubscribeCallback
from pubnub.enums import PNStatusCategory
from pubnub.pnconfiguration import PNConfiguration
from pubnub.pubnub_tornado import PubNubTornado
from tornado.ioloop import IOLoop

from tornado import gen

@gen.coroutine
def main():
    def my_publish_callback(future):
        # Check whether request successfully completed or not
        exception = future.exception()
        if exception is None:
            envelope = future.result()
            pass  # Message successfully published to specified channel.
        else:
            pass  # Handle message publish error. Check 'category' property to find out possible issue
            # because of which request did fail.
            # Request can be resent using: [status retry];

    class MySubscribeCallback(SubscribeCallback):
        def presence(self, pubnub, presence):
            pass  # handle incoming presence data

        def status(self, pubnub, status):
            if status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNUnexpectedDisconnectCategory:
                pass  # This event happens when radio / connectivity is lost

            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNConnectedCategory:
                # Connect event. You can do stuff like publish, and know you'll get it.
                # Or just use the connected event to confirm you are subscribed for
                # UI / internal notifications, etc
                pubnub.ioloop.add_future(
                    pubnub.publish().channel("awesomeChannel").message("hello!!").future(),
                    my_publish_callback
                )
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNReconnectedCategory:
                pass
                # Happens as part of our regular operation. This event happens when
                # radio / connectivity is lost, then regained.
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNDecryptionErrorCategory:
                pass
                # Handle message decryption error. Probably client configured to
                # encrypt messages and on live data feed it received plain text.

        def message(self, pubnub, message):
            # Handle new message stored in message.message
            pass

    pubnub.add_listener(MySubscribeCallback())
    pubnub.subscribe().channels('awesomeChannel').execute()
    yield gen.sleep(10)


if __name__ == '__main__':
    IOLoop.current().run_sync(main)
----

== Copy and paste examples
In addition to the Hello World sample code, we also provide some copy and paste snippets of common
API functions:

=== Init
Instantiate a new Pubnub instance. Only the `subscribe_key` is mandatory. Also include `publish_key`
if you intend to publish from this instance, and the `secret_key` if you wish to perform PAM
administrative operations from this Python V4 instance.

NOTE: For security reasons you should only include the secret-key on a highly secured server. The
secret-key is only required for granting rights using our Access Manager.

[source,python]
.Initializing the client
----
from pubnub.pnconfiguration import PNConfiguration
from pubnub.pubnub_tornado import PubNubTornado

pnconfig = PNConfiguration()

pnconfig.subscribe_key = 'my_subscribe_key'
pnconfig.publish_key = 'my_publish_key'
pnconfig.secret_key = 'my_secret_key'

pubnub = PubNubTornado(pnconfig)
----

=== Listeners

[source,python]
.Adding listeners
----
from pubnub.callbacks import SubscribeCallback
from pubnub.enums import PNOperationType, PNStatusCategory

class MySubscribeCallback(SubscribeCallback):
    def status(self, pubnub, status):
        pass
        # The status object returned is always related to subscribe but could contain
        # information about subscribe, heartbeat, or errors
        # use the operationType to switch on different options
        if status.operation == PNOperationType.PNSubscribeOperation \
                or status.operation == PNOperationType.PNUnsubscribeOperation:
            if status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNConnectedCategory:
                pass
                # This is expected for a subscribe, this means there is no error or issue whatsoever
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNReconnectedCategory:
                pass
                # This usually occurs if subscribe temporarily fails but reconnects. This means
                # there was an error but there is no longer any issue
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNDisconnectedCategory:
                pass
                # This is the expected category for an unsubscribe. This means there
                # was no error in unsubscribing from everything
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNUnexpectedDisconnectCategory:
                pass
                # This is usually an issue with the internet connection, this is an error, handle
                # appropriately retry will be called automatically
            elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNAccessDeniedCategory:
                pass
                # This means that PAM does allow this client to subscribe to this
                # channel and channel group configuration. This is another explicit error
            else:
                pass
                # This is usually an issue with the internet connection, this is an error, handle appropriately
                # retry will be called automatically
        elif status.operation == PNOperationType.PNSubscribeOperation:
            # Heartbeat operations can in fact have errors, so it is important to check first for an error.
            # For more information on how to configure heartbeat notifications through the status
            # PNObjectEventListener callback, consult <link to the PNCONFIGURATION heartbeart config>
            if status.is_error():
                pass
                # There was an error with the heartbeat operation, handle here
            else:
                pass
                # Heartbeat operation was successful
        else:
            pass
            # Encountered unknown status type

    def presence(self, pubnub, presence):
        pass  # handle incoming presence data

    def message(self, pubnub, message):
        pass  # handle incoming messages


pubnub.add_listener(MySubscribeCallback())
----

[source,python]
.Removing Listeners
----
# MySubscribeCallback is defined in the "Adding listeners" example
my_listener = MySubscribeCallback()

pubnub.add_listener(my_listener)

# some time later
pubnub.remove_listener(my_listener)
----

[source,python]
.Handling disconnects
----
from pubnub.callbacks import SubscribeCallback
from pubnub.enums import PNStatusCategory

class HandleDisconnectsCallback(SubscribeCallback):
    def status(self, pubnub, status):
        if status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNUnexpectedDisconnectCategory:
            # internet got lost, do some magic and call reconnect when ready
            pubnub.reconnect()
        elif status.category == PNStatusCategory.PNTimeoutCategory:
            # do some magic and call reconnect when ready
            pubnub.reconnect()
        else:
            logger.debug(status)

    def presence(self, pubnub, presence):
        pass

    def message(self, pubnub, message):
        pass

disconnect_listener = HandleDisconnectsCallback()

pubnub.add_listener(disconnect_listener)
----

==== Listeners categories

|===
| Categories | Description

|PNNetworkIssuesCategory | A subscribe event experienced an exception when running.
|PNReconnectedCategory | SDK was able to reconnect to pubnub.
|PNConnectedCategory | SDK subscribed with a new mix of channels (fired every time the channel / channel group mix changed).
|===

=== Time

[source,python]
.Call `time()` to verify the client connectivity to the origin:
----
envelope = yield pubnub.time().future()
    print('current time: %d' % envelope.result)
----

=== Subscribe

[source,python]
.Subscribe (listen on) a channel:
----
pubnub.subscribe().channels('my_channel').execute()
----

=== Publish

[source,python]
.Publish a message to a channel:
----
from tornado import gen

@gen.coroutine
def publish_snippet():
    def publish_callback(task):
        exception = task.exception()

        if exception is None:
            envelope = task.result()
            # Handle PNPublishResult(envelope.result) and PNStatus (envelope.status)
            pass
        else:
            # Handle exception
            pass

    pubnub.publish().channel('such_channel').message(['hello', 'there']).future().add_done_callback(publish_callback)

    yield gen.sleep(10)
----

=== HereNow
NOTE: Requires that the `Presence` add-on is enabled for your key. How do I enable add-on features for my keys? - see http://www.pubnub.com/knowledge-base/discussion/644/how-do-i-enable-add-on-features-for-my-keys

[source,python]
.Get occupancy of who's here now on the channel:
----
from tornado import gen

@gen.coroutine
def here_now():
    envelope = yield pubnub.here_now().channels('demo').include_uuids(True).future()

    if envelope.status.is_error():
        return

    for channel_data in envelope.result.channels:
        print("---")
        print("channel: %s" % channel_data.channel_name)
        print("occupancy: %s" % channel_data.occupancy)

        print("occupants: %s" % channel_data.channel_name)
        for occupant in channel_data.occupants:
            print("uuid: %s, state: %s" % (occupant.uuid, occupant.state))

    pubnub.stop()
----

=== Presence
Subscribe to realtime Presence events, such as `join`, `leave`, and `timeout`, by UUID. Setting the presence attribute to a callback will subscribe to presents events on `my_channel`:

NOTE: Requires that the `Presence` add-on is enabled for your key. How do I enable add-on features for my keys? - see http://www.pubnub.com/knowledge-base/discussion/644/how-do-i-enable-add-on-features-for-my-keys

[source,python]
----
pubnub.subscribe().channels('my_channel').with_presence().execute()
----

NOTE: The response of the call is handled by adding a Listener. Please see the Listeners section for
more details. Listeners should be added before calling the method.


=== History

NOTE: Requires that the `Storage and Playback` add-on is enabled for your key. How do I enable
add-on features for my keys? - see
http://www.pubnub.com/knowledge-base/discussion/644/how-do-i-enable-add-on-features-for-my-keys

[source,python]
.Retrieve published messages from archival storage:
----
envelope = yield pubnub.history().channel('history_channel').count(100).future()
# handle messages stored at evelope.result.messages
# status is available as envelope.status
----

=== Unsubscribe

[source,python]
.Stop subscribing(listening) to a channel:
----
pubnub.unsubscribe().channels(['my_channel', 'another_channel']).execute()
----

NOTE: The response of the call is handled by adding a Listener. Please see the Listeners section
for more details. Listeners should be added before calling the method.
